README.md, before:

# About

Libvirt-dotnet provides a .NETish interface to the libvirt virtualization API. 
The original code is base on the raw bindings provided by Libvirt Bindings (https://libvirt.org/git/?p=libvirt-csharp.git).

Arnaud Champion and Jaromír Červenka have done a wonderful job in providing 
libvirt bindings for .NET, but we thought it would be useful to have a little 
more .NETish interface for working with libvirt. In the meantime, libvirt-dotnet 
has also received numerous additional features, such as the creation of screenshots 
or the output of the CPU usage. 

The code runs fine on mono and dotnet core (tested with mono 6.8 and dotnet-sdk 3.1 on RHEL 8). All operations are thread-safe.

# Nuget package

NuGet packages are available at https://www.nuget.org/packages/libvirt-dotnet

```PS
Install-Package libvirt-dotnet
```

The package is available for NETCoreApp 3.1, NETFramework 4.7, NETStandard 2.0. The dependcy on System.Drawing.Common is required for converting console screenshots to the specified destination format.
 
# Documentation
 
The following code examples below should give you a head start. 
See examples/ConsoleCore for more. For configuration options see the fluet interface of LibvirtConnection.Create.

## Example 1

The following code will output a list of domains and storage pools. Thereafter it 
waits for domain events like stopped, started, ... until you hit ENTER.

```c#
private static void Connection_DomainEventReceived(object sender, VirDomainEventArgs e)
{
    var domain = (LibvirtDomain)sender; // Note: this is null on undefine event
    Console.WriteLine($"EVENT: {e.UniqueId} {domain?.Name} {e.EventType}");
}

static void Main(string[] args)
{
    using (var connection = LibvirtConnection.Connect())
    {
		Console.WriteLine();
		Console.WriteLine("[DOMAINS]");
		
		foreach (var domain in connection.Domains)
		{
			Console.WriteLine($"{domain.UniqueId} {domain.Name} {domain.State}");
		}

		Console.WriteLine();
		Console.WriteLine("[STORAGE POOLS]");
		
		foreach (var domain in connection.StoragePools)
		{
			Console.WriteLine($"{domain.UniqueId} {domain.Name} {domain.State}");
		}

        Console.WriteLine();
        Console.WriteLine("Waiting for domain lifecycle events...");
        connection.DomainEventReceived += Connection_DomainEventReceived;

        Console.WriteLine();
        Console.WriteLine("[ENTER] to exit");
        Console.ReadLine();
    }
}
```

## Example 2

Getting the domains CPU utilization in percent is as easy as:

```c#
    using (var connection = LibvirtConnection.Create.WithLocalAuth().Connect())
    {
		var d = domain in connection.Domains.Where(t => t.Name == 'MyVM').First();
		
		while(! Console.KeyAvailable)
		{
		    Console.WriteLine($"{d.Name}'s CPU Utilization = {d.CpuUtilization.LastSecond}%");
		    Thread.Sleep(1000);
		}
	}
```

## Example 3

You need a screenshot of a domains console? Here you go:

```c#
    using (var connection = LibvirtConnection.Create.WithOpenAuth("user", "pass").Connect("@"qemu:///system"))
    {
		var d = domain in connection.Domains.Where(t => t.Name == 'MyVM').First();
		
		using(var fs = new FileStream("image.jpg", FileMode.Create))
			d.GetScreenshot(fs, System.Drawing.Imaging.ImageFormat.Jpeg);
	}
```

# License

This code is licensed under the GNU Lesser General Public Library, Version 2.1 (the "License"). 
You may obtain a copy of the License at https://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl-2.1.en.html

# Copyright

The original libvirt-csharp code was written by Arnaud Champion and Jaromír Červenka and can be found at
https://libvirt.org/git/?p=libvirt-csharp.git

# Contributions 

The libvirt-dotnet repository is maintained by IDNT [https://www.idnt.net/]

Contributions of all kinds are always welcome.

Commit message:

Moved project to IDNT AppBasics space.

README.md, after:

# About

IDNT AppBasics are a series of basic application components created by IDNT. They
are used within our internal PaaS and SaaS infrastructure as well as for several
other public and private projects. Feel free to use these components within your
own application. 

# This component

This component provides a .NETish interface to the libvirt virtualization API [https://libvirt.org].
The library is based on the raw Libvirt Bindings [https://libvirt.org/git/?p=libvirt-csharp.git] developed
by Arnaud Champion, Jaromír Červenka and contributors. This project extends the bindings with rich 
functionality with a .NETish fluent interface.

The code runs fine on mono and dotnet core (tested with mono 6.8 and dotnet-sdk 3.1 on RHEL 8). All operations are thread-safe.

# Nuget package

NuGet packages are available at https://www.nuget.org/packages/libvirt-dotnet

```PS
Install-Package libvirt-dotnet
```

The package is available for NETCoreApp 3.1, NETFramework 4.7, NETStandard 2.0. The dependcy on System.Drawing.Common is required for converting console screenshots to the specified destination format.
 
# Documentation
 
See examples/ConsoleCore to see the basic usage. For configuration options see the fluet interface of LibvirtConnection.Create.

## Example 1

The following code will output a list of domains and storage pools. Thereafter it 
waits for domain events like stopped, started, ... until you hit ENTER.

```c#
private static void Connection_DomainEventReceived(object sender, VirDomainEventArgs e)
{
    var domain = (LibvirtDomain)sender; // Note: this is null on undefine event
    Console.WriteLine($"EVENT: {e.UniqueId} {domain?.Name} {e.EventType}");
}

static void Main(string[] args)
{
    using (var connection = LibvirtConnection.Connect())
    {
		Console.WriteLine();
		Console.WriteLine("[DOMAINS]");
		
		foreach (var domain in connection.Domains)
		{
			Console.WriteLine($"{domain.UniqueId} {domain.Name} {domain.State}");
		}

		Console.WriteLine();
		Console.WriteLine("[STORAGE POOLS]");
		
		foreach (var domain in connection.StoragePools)
		{
			Console.WriteLine($"{domain.UniqueId} {domain.Name} {domain.State}");
		}

        Console.WriteLine();
        Console.WriteLine("Waiting for domain lifecycle events...");
        connection.DomainEventReceived += Connection_DomainEventReceived;

        Console.WriteLine();
        Console.WriteLine("[ENTER] to exit");
        Console.ReadLine();
    }
}
```

## Example 2

Getting the domains CPU utilization in percent is as easy as:

```c#
    using (var connection = LibvirtConnection.Create.WithLocalAuth().Connect())
    {
		var d = domain in connection.Domains.Where(t => t.Name == 'MyVM').First();
		
		while(! Console.KeyAvailable)
		{
		    Console.WriteLine($"{d.Name}'s CPU Utilization = {d.CpuUtilization.LastSecond}%");
		    Thread.Sleep(1000);
		}
	}
```

## Example 3

You need a screenshot of a domains console? Here you go:

```c#
    using (var connection = LibvirtConnection.Create.WithOpenAuth("user", "pass").Connect("@"qemu:///system"))
    {
		var d = domain in connection.Domains.Where(t => t.Name == 'MyVM').First();
		
		using(var fs = new FileStream("image.jpg", FileMode.Create))
			d.GetScreenshot(fs, System.Drawing.Imaging.ImageFormat.Jpeg);
	}
```

# License

This code is licensed under the GNU Lesser General Public Library, Version 2.1 (the "License"). 
You may obtain a copy of the License at https://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl-2.1.en.html

# Copyright

The original libvirt-csharp code was written by Arnaud Champion and Jaromír Červenka and can be found at
https://libvirt.org/git/?p=libvirt-csharp.git

# Contributions 

The libvirt-dotnet repository is maintained by IDNT [https://www.idnt.net/]

Contributions of all kinds are always welcome.
